# <h1 align="center"> Licensing</h1>

!!! clipboard-list "Objectives"

    - Explain why adding licensing information to a repository is important.
    - Choose a proper license.
    - Explain differences in licensing and social expectations.



As an open source project, Software Carpentry relies on volunteers to create our lessons and includes a file named LICENSE or LICENSE.txt file in all public lesson repositories. This file is used to specify that all materials are freely available under the Creative Commons Attribution license. Without a file that clearly states under which license any public source code, manuscript or other creative works is being made available, the default copyright laws apply. To learn more about licensing and open source, you can read more about [Github’s description of license](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/licensing-a-repository) and the legal grounds for [open source licensing](https://opensource.guide/legal/#are-public-github-projects-open-source).

A license solves this problem by granting rights to others (the licensees) that they would otherwise not have. What rights are being granted under which conditions differs, often only slightly, from one license to another. In practice, a few licenses are by far the most popular, and choosealicense.com will help you find a common license that suits your needs. Important considerations include:

- Whether you want to address patent rights.
- Whether you require people distributing derivative works to also distribute their source code.
- Whether the content you are licensing is source code.
- Whether you want to license the code at all.